America in 1968 was a year of
assassinations deep divisions and grim
warnings about black/white relationships
a presidential candidate came on the
scene who focused many of his campaign
speeches on healing those racial
divisions we'll never know if he might
have succeeded because he was brought
down by an assassin's bullet of course
I'm referring to Robert F Kennedy his
son Bobby jr. has a new book out about
his father and his famous family and we
recently spoke about that and about
today's tumultuous political landscape
the book is entitled American values
lessons I learned from my family here is
that interview watch your wonderful
father Bobby Kennedy was assassinated 50
years ago we more or less divided now
than in 68 when you were just a little
kid I think they are systemic because
they're economically I think one of the
you know big things that has happened to
polarize our country is are these giant
apps between rich and poor the hollowing
out erosion of the middle class and and
then the the giant tsunami influx of
money into politics
and the effect of that and it's
something that I all I know I spent a
lot of my childhood in Latin America and
one I was in there almost all those
military governments the societies were
characterized by a big gap between rich
and poor and when that happens the role
of one political party becomes to
protect the perks and privileges of the
wealthy class and I in order to do that
you have to polarize is a population and
you have to use all of the Alchemy's of
demagoguery to point to people who are
the enemies and polarized your society
and so I think you know there were
issues that divided us in the
60s that was drugs that was Vietnam that
was Civil Rights but those were genuine
disputes about ideology and they weren't
really rooted in in class divisions I
think they become much more intractable
when they're rooted in class divisions
did you say it's worse now yeah I would
say it's worse now you're in such an
extraordinary family the Kennedy family
given so much been a part of the
American scene for so long do you think
you were raised with an idea of service
or some kind of public service but you
know it's all it was all around to us
because we were you know we were as I
talked about in the immersed in
political campaigns we were surrounded
by people who were all driven I I
purposed by a sense of purpose I did I
made a trip in 1965 with my father to
Europe and we went to France Germany and
Greece and England and we went to we
went to Italy end and to Poland which
was in a communist country where we were
disinvited government said we don't want
you here and we won anyway and the
government blacked out our trips up
there was no mention of it on the news
in fact we went to an orphanage with
presidents for the orphanage the orphans
and all the orphans were removed before
we got there by the government because
they didn't want to have any contact
with the people but nevertheless through
word-of-mouth
the they the knowledge of our presence
spread and when we went into the
Cathedral in crack out from ass we came
out there were 250,000 people in the
square in Krakow Square and many of them
had somehow got ahold of these little
tiny American flags and waving him at us
and they were saying they lifted our car
literally they sang this this song
called stoat lat which poles only sung
to their most popular heroes
leaders never been sung by a crowd in
the Communist era and it was very
deliberative and you know I saw those
kind of crowds in every country we went
to the communist an uncommon it's people
it was very clear to me that people were
hungry for our leadership they were they
recognized America's moral authority
they wanted they wanted a heart
leadership they knew the difference
between leadership and Elaine but
Kennedy's are raised with that well yeah
what I'm saying is it was all around us
you know that it was a privilege to lead
a purposeful life and I think you know
my people who say to me like you know
are you doing environmental advocacy
because you know your father taught you
to do service to me it's a privilege to
live the kind of life I lived in two
pianos fist fights every day to do
something you know to try to make
something benefit in the world there's
another Kennedy on the horizon your
nephew Joe Kennedy he's Joe Kennedy the
third from Massachusetts he sometimes
mentioned as a dark horse for Speaker of
the House you see that possible
he's a you know he's a he's a he's a
genuine leader oh I wouldn't be
surprised about any level of success
he's got it yeah where's your party the
soul of the don't were discussing about
breakfast today if your party goes left
left
you're gonna lose you have to your if if
your father were alive he'd be a
progressive today right you super
against it then you're a progressive can
the progressives win the national action
don't they have to come together with
the center of the Democratic Party
you know I'm smart enough to be you
ought to be doing I think if there's
um you know I think the the success the
party is gonna be dependent on whether
good leaders who are mood or talking the
truth and who are reminding Americans
about what this nation is supposed to
represent and making us feel like we're
all part of one you know enterprise
rather than driving us apart I think
those you know those are issues I mean
listen my father my father ran he
brought people together hee hee hee hee
and you know that that last train ride
that I took with him when we brought him
from or from Penn Station in New York to
Union Station Washington did you say
there were 2 million people on the track
were white people and black people and
rabbis and priests and whatnot ins and
there were people in military uniform
and there were hippies and tie-dyed and
you know radical black militant radicals
and every kind of across the American
people and they were all people that
participated in his campaign and who
believed who were made to believe they
were part of something that would that
would allow them to step outside of
their narrow self-interest and do
something good but he was a great leader
four years after my father died the
demographic data show that most of those
white people it's along those train
tracks but it's 1972 not from George
McGovern who is aligned with my father
rather for George Wallace it was an odd
segregation antithetical to everything
my father and it struck me then and it
has its you know being reinforced many
times it ends every nation and I get
REME and being as a darker so I had a no
lighter side and the easiest thing for a
politician to do is to appeal to our
greed or self-interest our
year our anger our bigotries our
prejudice the stuff that Donald Trump is
now doing and it's much more difficult
but often more successful to remind
Americans we can't advance ourselves the
people by leaving our poor brothers the
better nature of our souls you had a
three-hour meeting with the man who
killed your father sirhan sirhan is that
in the book no why did you meet with him
I met with because I had done a I had
been urged by Polish right was one of my
father's closest friends and in
political Allah as he was a United
autoworkers fish recruited says our job
as the the United Farm Workers he was a
civil rights advocate
it was absolutely trusted my father he
worked on my father's California
campaign and when my father was a pulse
rate it was the first one shot he was
probably shot by the first of two
bullets that were fired by or hand
toward my father he was hit and the
bullet was removed from his head the the
and Paul from any bully years has been
convinced that Sirhan did not sir hands
but let's never reach my father my
father that two-shoes yeah oh the and
and this is no Paul has been trying to
get me involved a decade in this case
and I finally it was hard for me to say
no to him I went and spent time with
them and he had me read the autopsy
report which was a you know they ought
topic anybody who reads the autopsy
report autopsy report there were 77
people in that room every one of them
says sir Anton was always in front of my
father and most of them st. never God
within three feet the majority say five
feet but always from
the according to Thomas Noguchi is
probably the best corner and America he
my father the bullets the four bullets
that struck my father were all fired
from behind a were fired they were
contact shots which means the barrel of
the gun was actually touching my
father's body when the trigger was
pulled
what did Serena gucci came to the
conclusion that sir and could not have
colluded with two shooters yeah what did
Sirhan say sir and believes that there
were two shooters did he have a
connection with the second shooter no he
has a memory of he's been consistent for
40 years or 50 years and saying that he
has no memory of what happened that
night so how did you spend most the
people I mean virtually all the all the
psychiatrist's who have examined him and
have said he's telling the truth no
memory so what did you spend time
talking about I I'm not gonna talk about
what I think what I talk about can we
ever solve that it should be
investigated the murders never been
investigated you know because Sirhan
pled guilty
Sirhan a lawyer was was a lawyer who
represented Johnny Roselli
a mobster who had involved in CIA
assassination plots and and that
attorney had urged and to plead guilty
and to avoid a trial in which his guilt
would be disputed there was a short or a
sentencing hearing in which the
narrative was recited nobody ever and
nobody ever looked at the boat was the
hit my there there's Evan I let six
experts examine the bull is other none
of them could have conference
they came from a different continents Oh
Gucci come forward and say something and
in fact she was fired
I ve LA a district attorney at that time
because he wouldn't tell the line
because he was you know he was saying
this he's bullets could not have come
from her hands guns and this was rehired
under pressure from the Japanese
comedian from other people I knew
Noguchi is quite a guy you know the book
American values is part personal memoir
part political history why did you write
it I I wrote it because nobody there's
been over a thousand books about my
family and nobody from my family has
ever written what it was like from the
inside and there's so much agent now
about my family you know stuff going
from my you know my a lot of it is
slander as a grandfather it was a
bootlegger that that you know that my my
grandfather had relationships with
mobsters that they fix the nineteen
sixties election I know on and on and on
and those things are so embedded in a
psyche of the me on the American
political landscapes that people just
accept that that's true none of them
have anything to do and a part of this
the book is kind of straightening the
record out looking at the facts as my
gift to my children and their 105
Kennedy cousins who who are part of our
family and part of all the you know the
assault of what it means to be our
family and it was my attempt to explain
to our families were all in American
history the last chapter the book is
about your mother it's 90 now right yeah
she just 90 how is Ethel she is
wonderful
she's an amazing woman I was at the way
and and sharp and you know great
storyteller a really Hillen she know
she's old a hickory elf about ten years
ago and she now lives in Palm Beach
during the winter and she's at the Cape
the autumn spring and summer you praise
her but you also say there were times
when her love didn't feel unconditional
I had it tumultuous relationship which I
talked about in the book with you my
mother from the time I was born
and that really yeah and when I was
young I couldn't see these really heroic
qualities that she has as clearly as
were you mad at I was just I you know I
was rebellious kid I think that you know
and and like my own kids are constantly
I have six children and Cheryl has one
but you know they're constantly looking
for evidence of hypocrisy or you know or
whatever me not living up in
consistencies and you know my challenge
many kids yeah and I think that's what
kids have to be I think you're supposed
to divorce your parents you're supposed
and some people do it uh on an older age
I did at a very young age you know our
rules I experienced as petty tyrannies
it didn't make any sense and I spent a
lot of time running away from mom and
and doing things and then I got involved
with drugs after my dad's death of
course at inflamed whole relationship so
I was unable to um all of these
extraordinary qualities that my mother
has and then I got this over you know in
my 29 years old and I've had six kids of
my own and Ibn to marvel at you know how
do you get eleven kids to kneel and say
the Rosary every night he got them all
up on time for dinner
they're airbrush they're you know their
nails brushing their hair come and force
everybody to participate in a single
conversation where sidebars are you know
are illegal and well you know all of and
then you know forces to memorize poetry
and math every day at the summer
sometimes twice a day and you know you
start to appreciate when you have kids
of your own
Robert you're a great American it's an
honor knowing you thank you alright
aim
you